While long-term storage like a hard drive disk is cheap and durable,
it's much slower than memory.
Loading data from magnetic disk can be 200 times slower.
Even the newer solid-state drives known as SSDs,
are still about 15 times slower.
For example, processing an hour of tweets from memory,
would take about 30 milliseconds on my laptop.
It will be closer to half a second if I had to load that data from my SSD storage,
or four seconds if I had an older magnetic hard drive.
This difference between milliseconds and seconds may seem small,
but once we're working with gigabytes or terabytes of data, it really adds up.
Luckily, we'll see that Spark was designed specifically,
to optimize our use of memory and avoid this problem.